You are a real piece of if you believe I
have taken your money.
>> You destroyed your dream WHEN YOU STOP
BELIEVING IN ME.
>> There are two sides to Sam Lee.
>> Hi, I'm Sam. I'd like to introduce you
to my girlfriend. We all know who I'm
talking about right here. It's Bitcoin.
>> With Hyperverse and Blockchain Global,
he's championed the potential of
cryptocurrencies. Bitcoin is just part
of a fintech revolution. We're able to
democratize currency just like how the
internet democratized information.
>> He's appeared on a range of news
channels and he's also received
celebrity endorsements.
>> It's Steve Wnjak here, Apple co-founder
and I'm here to support Hyperverse.
>> But on the other hand, there's this
whole other side to Sanley's story. Your
life has been a complete and utter
failure as you continue to blame me for
what I am not responsible for.
>> When Hyperverse collapsed in 2022,
investors lost close to $2 billion.
>> It was a very dark time. Get a real
sense of shame and guilt about it. US
authorities charged Lee with fraud,
alleging that promised returns were
funded in what they called a pyramid and
a Ponzi scheme.
And yet he's promoting new ventures from
a place that has no extradition treaty
with the US.
>> Hi and welcome back. There is
multi-trillion dollars to be made from
paradigm shifts.
>> There are people all over the world
trying to track him down. We'll see
money going from one scam to fund
another scam. It's like money laundering
crypto style.
>> The question is, will Lee ever face
justice?
[Music]
I suppose I first got involved with
Hyper Fund about August 2021.
My name is uh Rubert Honeywood, very
happily married with one 28-year-old son
and and a dog and a cat. And needless to
say, the wife is boss of the house. uh
probably very closely followed by the
dog. I'm a little bit of a geek. I love
technology. I do love to double and play
with things. I think with crypto, what's
really exciting is it completely cuts
out the middleman. On Saturdays, you
would have what they class as a
leadership call. And it was very common
to have at least 8 900 people. Looking
back on it, it felt very much like you
becoming part of a almost a church.
There was a lot of positivity,
a bit of euphoria. People feel they've
almost built up a relationship with Sam
Lee because he was a very good ortor. He
was very convincing to listen to
>> just like the billionaires who invested
in Microsoft once and dividended out
forever, right? They earned it. They
picked the right horse. Now, I believe
you have also picked the right horse. In
January 2022,
I spoke to my wife and I said, "Look,
why don't we actually find a way of
getting rid of our mortgage completely?"
I decided that we'd put half our equity
into the whole project.
>> We've generated outstanding returns 10
times or even 100 times over. I suppose
for me the time when it seemed to go
really badly wrong was about two weeks
after we put in this very large deposit.
I got a tip off from two fairly senior
community leaders and said, "Look,
Robert, really sorry, but it's become
apparent that virtually all withdrawals
within the the community are going to
stop." the operation was started to
become
borderline insolvent. I just couldn't
possibly accept it. Um that possibly
something as bad as that was about to
happen. My wife understandably was very
upset with me.
They employed a fake CEO. The he's turns
out he's an actor. Lastly, we are aware
that a small number of members still
experiencing trouble with some of the
withdrawals and accounts being frozen.
>> These are getting resolved.
>> It was reassuring at the time cuz people
didn't know he was a fake.
>> It took me probably a good 48 hours, 2 3
days before I could could even accept
the extent of actually what happened and
the devastation. of course you feel
perhaps you've let other people down. I
think my wife has just about forgiven
me. Um I'm pleased to say
[Music]
we've since moved into attached house.
It's a shared ownership. I'm effectively
the lodger. Yes. So this picture here
was actually painting of our last house.
We lived there for nearly 28 years. Lots
of very happy memories. So you have to
laugh otherwise you'd cry.
Yeah,
I contacted a major UK agency which is
based around fraud and my calls never
actually returned. I feel he's a bit
like a teflon man.
>> You invest once benefit forever.
>> Nothing would give me greater pleasure
for him to be dealt with appropriately.
[Music]
I could talk about Sam Lee for 20 weeks.
I see a lot of people that are drawn
into these schemes. They show nice cars,
nice houses, nice holidays, happy
people, but I don't see happy people in
these Zoom meetings. Test one, two,
three. Hello. Welcome.
[Music]
Hello, I'm Danny Deick and I'm your
savior from Hyperverse, formerly known
as Hyper Fun. I've been fighting these
scams for nearly 3 years. I've got about
1,700 videos on my YouTube channel.
These companies are built on nothing.
They're built on memberships. Please do
not invest any of your hard-earned
dollars and do your own due diligence.
I'm trying to talk to these people that
don't want to believe in me. They just
want to carry on that path and they'll
lose all their money. They literally
just want to believe in something. I
mean, you think about what I used to
believe. I was born into the Jehovah's
Witness organization. I used to listen
to the elders and the ministerial
servants preach and tell people that we
were going to live in a paradise earth.
And I used to truly believe what they
told us from the stage. I got kicked out
of the religion when I was 23 years of
age and I had to start over. So I had
nothing. So now I see a shocking
parallel with the people in these Zoom
meetings gaslighting people and telling
them that they're going to get wealthy
if they listen to their investment
advice.
Family, you are a personal project of
Danny Deit.
>> Family brother from another lover. Have
not. Would you guys like to have
breakfast with Scam Lee?
>> He's gone from one scheme to another.
>> Do not be hooked into the message of
Sam. Sam is Scam Lee. These guys were
like just the most amazing people and
they claim they have 250,000 active
users and have a million accounts, but
it's like buying Monopoly money.
>> Around the time that Blockchain Global
collapsed, Sam Lee left Australia. A lot
of people took the money and ran. Family
disappeared.
>> Blockchain Global has $50 million
Australian missing.
>> We didn't know where he was. We was
trying to figure it out.
>> Over the past decade or so, experts say
there's one place where crypto scamming
has been very prolific. And it happens
to be the same place that Sam moved to
when he left Australia.
>> Yep, he's live. You heard it here first.
Sam Lee is back. Eight months after he
left Australia, he popped up in Dubai
with a new scheme called Hyper 1. And I
thought it was a joke.
>> Welcome to the Silken Oasis UAE.
>> Ground zero of one of my many
operations.
>> Lee's been prolific since settling in
Dubai. He's worked on Vidilook, Satoshi
Square Table, Stabled Dow, and We Are
All Satoshi. These are far from solo
projects. There are entire teams behind
them.
>> Dubai does seem to be a place where
people seem to flee, especially related
with crypto.
>> The UAE was put on a gray list a few
years ago of countries not doing enough
to tackle illicit finance. It was taken
off that list earlier last year. The
country has made public efforts to clean
up its finance sector. The issue is how
effective these measures have been and
is enough being done in Dubai and
internationally.
>> It is getting to the stage where we need
help. A lot of people sort of getting
away with it.
>> Unlike most people facing prosecution,
Sam's always been very willing to speak
to me and that's why we set up a sitdown
interview.
So originally the idea was to come here
in Dubai and interview Sam Lee to talk
about Hyperverse and he said that he
would meet us. So right now when I'm
messaging Sam on WhatsApp it shows up as
if he's not received my messages. So
he's kind of gone off the radar.
This is the place that Sam Lee in one of
his videos shows as his uh office
center.
We looked all over the city for him. We
went to his personal and business
addresses, but there was no sign of him.
Just kind of been waiting.
>> L E E L E E.
>> Okay. No. So, it looks like Sammy
doesn't live here and it doesn't look
like he's staying at the apartment that
US authorities had an address for.
I knew he had an extensive network of
people who were working with him on a
lot of these ventures, most of which
seemed problematic. So, we've been able
to find a number of people close to
Samley, people who've helped him set up
his websites, people who've helped him
find liquidity in the industry. Sam
honestly he's been kind of also like a
mentor.
>> Sam and others. So they're all hardcore
originators of this decentralized
technology.
>> I cannot say personally at least that
I've spoken or I know someone that has
as much knowledge and experience.
But if you look around Dubai, there are
a number of signs of other alleged scams
just spread all around the city. One of
Dubai's metro stations is sponsored by
OnPassive, a company US authorities have
declared a pyramid scheme. It promotes
affiliate marketing, which is the same
thing as multi-level marketing. And
that's where people make money by
selling products and getting commissions
from signing up new people. Pyramid and
Ponzi schemes are illegal in most
countries, including in the US and in
the UAE. Multi-level marketing schemes
are legal, and the line between the two
is often hard to discern.
The question is why Dubai has become
such a magnet for these dubious
businesses. Throughout its history, the
city has sought to become the center of
global trade. This started with the oil
boom and it's evolved into finance and
now tech. In order to attract the best
talent, it created a tax and regulatory
environment that makes it easy to do
business here. The problem is while
attracting legitimate businesses, this
has also made it a haven for various
tech pyramid and Ponzi schemes according
to US authorities. And despite recent
progress in combating illicit finance,
Dubai continues to grapple with an
influx of bad actors particularly in the
crypto space.
A month after I returned, news of Sam's
whereabouts finally emerged.
>> Sam Lee has been detained in Dubai. Once
again, Sam Lee has been detained in
Dubai.
>> Sam told me he'd surrendered himself
willingly to Dubai authorities after an
Interpol red notice was issued. He'd
been detained for 60 days and had just
been released. After exchanging
messages, we arranged a remote sitdown
interview.
>> What got me through my 60 days of
incarceration was knowing that they
cannot do anything worse to me because
they have already done what they excuse
me.
Yeah.
Why can they get the narrative so wrong
and use such powerful and defaming words
when all I've done was try to help
people understand this space?
It's because regulators unfortunately
cannot be seen as being asleep at the
wheel. They have to prove me guilty.
That's very very hard when they have
very little evidence on what actually
has happened. So to some of the early
investors who lost money, what would you
say to them?
>> I'm sympathetic to investors who
participate in this space and lose
money. But everyone who understand how
to make money in this space by really
listening to what I have to say, giving
me time to really understand this space
have made money. If people are not able
to take the full scope of my knowledge
um and apply it, then the outcome of
course will be less than ideal.
>> So I kind of want to bring up the
language that US regulators are using.
It's pretty strong. They're talking
about pyramid schemes, Ponzi schemes.
Are they misunderstanding crypto and
also like affiliate marketing?
>> There is nothing wrong with multi-level
marketing. There is nothing wrong with
cryptocurrency. They simply feel
threatened that this new form of
financial value creation and exchange is
competing with the uh USbacked
currencies and their existing controls
that they have on the capital markets.
I love Dubai. The regulatory framework
in the UAE benefits the existing
platforms. There are many exciting
projects on the horizon. You just have
to stay tuned.
>> It's unclear what will happen next. Even
if Lee doesn't face his charges in the
US, the damage to his reputation may
impede his new businesses. But this
story isn't just about Lee. If Dubai
continues to harbor these questionable
schemes, the damage these ventures pose
is likely going to increase.
With authorities often powerless to act
across borders, it's fallen on people
like Danny to sound the alarm on
suspected scams.
>> It does have a big toll on me. And some
days it does hit me like a ton of
bricks. But because of my upbringing, I
feel like I'm fighting a battle for
other people. So, it's not going to stop
me doing what I do, but it is a concern.
[Music]